About Git

Learn about the version control system, Git, and how it works with GitHub.

About version control and Git

A version control system, or VCS, tracks the history of changes as people and teams collaborate on projects together. As developers make changes to the project, any earlier 
version of the project can be recovered at any time.

VCSs give each contributor a unified and consistent view of a project, surfacing work that's already in progress. Seeing a transparent history of changes, who made them, and
how they contribute to the development of a project helps team members stay aligned while working independently.

Git lets developers see the entire timeline of their changes, decisions, and progression of any project in one place. From the moment they access the history of a project, the
developer has all the context they need to understand it and start contributing.

Developers work in every time zone. With a DVCS like Git, collaboration can happen any time while maintaining source code integrity. Using branches, developers can safely
propose changes to production code.

About repositories :-

A repository, or Git project, encompasses the entire collection of files and folders associated with a project, along with each file's revision history. The file history
appears as snapshots in time called commits. The commits can be organized into multiple lines of development called branches. Because Git is a DVCS, repositories are
self-contained units and anyone who has a copy of the repository can access the entire codebase and its history. Using the command line or other ease-of-use interfaces,
a Git repository also allows for: interaction with the history, cloning the repository, creating branches, committing, merging, comparing changes across versions of code, 
and more.


Basic Git commands :-
 These commands can be executed directly from the command line or by using an application like GitHub Desktop. Here are some common commands for using Git:

.git init  :-  initializes a new Git repository and begins tracking an existing directory. It adds a hidden subfolder within the existing directory which we can’t see. 

.git clone :- creates a local copy of a project that already exists remotely. The clone includes all the project's files, history, and branches.

.git add :- stages a change. Git tracks changes to a developer's codebase, but it's necessary to stage and take a snapshot of the changes to include them in the project's
             history. This command performs staging, the first part of that two-step process. Any changes that are staged will become a part of the next snapshot and a part
             of the project's history. Staging and committing separately gives developers complete control over the history of their project without changing how they code
             and work.
       git add filename
       Then the file will we staged.
       If we give the command like git add . ,then all the unstaged files will get staged
       
.git commit :- saves the snapshot to the project history and completes the change-tracking process. In short, a commit functions like taking a photo. Anything that's been 
              staged with git add will become a part of the snapshot with git commit.
         We can add message by giving command as
         git commit -m here we are abel to write a message.

.git status  :-shows the status of changes as untracked, modified, or staged.

.git diff :- shows what changes are made to the file, the lines which are deleted those lines will appear as red. The lines which are added, those lines will appear as green.

.git branch :- it creates a branch.

.git merge :- merges lines of development together. This command is typically used to combine changes made on two distinct branches. For example, a developer would merge when
               they want to combine changes from a feature branch into the main branch for deployment.

.git pull:- updates the local line of development with updates from its remote counterpart. Developers use this command if a teammate has made commits to a branch on a remote,
            and they would like to reflect those changes in their local environment.

.git push :-updates the remote repository with any commits made locally to a branch.

 download a repository on GitHub to our machine
       git clone https://github.com/owner/repo.git
       
 change into the repo directory
       cd repo 
   
create a new branch to store any new changes
      git branch my-branch

switch to that branch (line of development)
      git checkout my-branch

stage the changed files
      git add file1.md file2.md

take a snapshot of the staging area (anything that's been added)
      git commit -m "my snapshot"
      
push changes to github
      git push --set-upstream origin my-branch     
      
Example: Start a new repository and publish it to GitHub
      First, you will need to create a new repository on GitHub. For more information, see "Hello World." Do not initialize the repository with a README, .gitignore or
      License file.This empty repository will await your code.
      
      
